# PHMAP2023Poster<br>
PHMAP2023 Poster Repository<br><br>
Poster Title: Sparse Modeling of Wavelet Features for Fault Classification and Regression in Spacecraft Propulsion Systems<br>
Authors: Joseph Cohen<sup>1,2</sup>, Andreas Rauch<sup>1,3</sup>, Jennifer Li<sup>1,4</sup>, Bernardo Modenesi<sup>1,5,6</sup>, James Boyko<sup>1,7</sup>, Yutong Wang<sup>1,6</sup>, Eunshin Byon<sup>8</sup>, and Xun Huan<sup>2</sup>
​<br>
<br>
[1] Michigan Institute for Data Science<br>
[2] Department of Mechanical Engineering<br>
[3] Department of Aerospace Engineering<br>
[4] Department of Astronomy<br>
[5] Departments of Economics<br>
[6] Departments of Statistics<br>
[7] Departments of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology<br>
[8] Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations<br>
​
<br>Brief Presentation Included: "PHMAP Poster Presentaiton Video.mp4"

<br>Dataset Title: PHMAP23: dynamic response of a spacecraft propulsion system<br>
​
<br>Dataset Provider: Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)
​
<br><br>Key Point:
<br> - This solution achieved an accuracy of 92.98% and an overall position of 8th place within the competition.
<br> - Sparse modeling of wavelet features achieve high accuracy for fault classification and regression in spacecraft propulsion systems
​
<br><br>Competition Objective:
<br>- Improve PHM technology for next-generation spacecraft by diagnosing normal, bubble anomalies, solenoid valve faults, and unknown abnormal cases using data generated by a simulator for a simplified propulsion system developed with the cooperation of JAXA (see https://phmap.jp/program-data/ for details).
​
<br><br>Methodology:
​
<br>(1) Identification of Unidentified Failures:
​
<br>We incorporated the use of unsupervised methods to detect anomalies. Any detected cases were subsequently omitted for the forthcoming tasks to preserve data quality.
​
<br>(2) Comparative Analysis of Normal Conditions, Bubble Scenario, and Solenoid Valve:
​
<br>The pressure measurements were segmented into three parts, serving as separate datasets for model training. Rather than utilizing the raw pressure measurement, we implemented the Discrete Wavelet Transform. The segments generated by the Discrete Wavelet Transform underwent Standard Scalers to streamline the data. The most efficacious model proved to be Random Forest Classifier. The initial segment held the high advantage particularly for borderline cases.
​
<br>(3) Bubble Location:
​
<br>A Logistic Regression CV with an L1 penalty was employed due to its dual benefits of linear modeling and sparsity. The first segment carried significant weight for borderline cases.
​
<br>(4) Solenoid Location (This represented the most challenging classification task):
​
<br>We utilized a Logistic Regression CV with an L1 penalty given its advantageous combination of linear modeling and sparsity. As with previous iterations, the first segment affirmed its importance for borderline scenarios.
​
<br>(5) Valve Ratio Prediction:
​
<br>We discarded 100 case instances due to their potential to skew results. Negative predictions were adjusted to zero to maintain accuracy. The LASSO CV was the chosen method of implementation. To further enhance the accuracy, the predictions for each segment were averaged.
    
<br>Related publication(s):
<br> [1] Tominaga, Kohji, et al. "Anomaly Detection Method of Spacecraft Propulsion Using Multiplexed Fiber Bragg Gratings." (2022). 
<br> [2] Tibshirani, Robert. "Regression shrinkage and selection via the LASSO." Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series B: Statistical Methodology 58.1 (1996): 267-288.
<br> [3] Zhao, Yihong, R. Todd Ogden, and Philip T. Reiss. "Wavelet-based LASSO in functional linear regression." Journal of computational and graphical statistics 21.3 (2012): 600-617.

​
<br>Acknowledgements: This work is supported by the Eric and Wendy Schmidt AI in Science Postdoctoral Fellowship, a Schmidt Futures program.